<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_hmj_x32_3hb">
    <title>Chatbots and Security</title>
    <shortdesc>
        <section id="section_zbd_y32_3hb">
            <title><ph id="_Toc5112605">Overview</ph></title>
            <p>Chatbots need data to do their job, and they may handle very sensitive data, such as
                credit/debit cards, SSN, bank accounts and other sensitive personally identifiable
                information (PII). This makes chatbots an attractive target to be exploited by an
                attacker to steal users’ information. For this reason, is very important to know the
                security practices that are implemented at SAP when working with chatbots. For the
                most part, chatbots don’t present security issues that haven’t already been
                discovered and properly mitigated. Being aware of the security practices not only
                helps you to ensure that your chatbot is secure but also gives you peace of mind
                that your chatbot will not be at risk.</p>
        </section>
        <section id="section_acd_y32_3hb">
            <title><ph id="_Toc5112606">Types of security concerns</ph></title>
            <p>Security concerns fall into two main categories:</p>
            <p>· Threats</p>
            <ul id="ul_bcd_y32_3hb">
                <li>These are usually defined as ways that a system can be compromised. Threats can
                    include events such as Spoofing, Tampering, Repudiation, Information Disclosure,
                    Denial of Service, Elevation of Privileges and many more. After an attack,
                    hackers can threaten to expose information or sell personal information on the
                    deep web. Each different attack should be mitigated with their respective
                    techniques.</li>
            </ul>
            <p>· Vulnerabilities</p>
            <ul id="ul_ccd_y32_3hb">
                <li>Vulnerabilities are defined as ways that a system can be compromised that are
                    not properly mitigated. A system can become vulnerable and open to attacks when
                    it is not well maintained, has poor coding, lacks protection, or due to human
                    errors. The most effective way to mitigate vulnerabilities is to implement SDL
                    (Security Development Lifecycle) activities into the development lifecycle.</li>
            </ul>
            <p><xref
                    href="https://social.technet.microsoft.com/wiki/contents/articles/7100.the-security-development-lifecycle.aspx"
                    format="html" scope="external"/></p>
            <p>Chatbots can offer a solution to some of the well-known security weaknesses.
                Encryption and other security measures minimize the vulnerability of a system
                through highly secure protocols. As a result, chatbots provide security to some
                vulnerabilities.</p>
        </section>
        <section id="section_gcd_y32_3hb">
            <title><ph id="_Toc5112607">Some security practices implemented when working with a
                    chatbot</ph></title>
            <p>· End-to-end encryption</p>
            <p> It is very important to have end-to-end encryption, this ensures that the whole
                conversation will be encrypted. Data in transit can also be tampered and spoofed,
                different protocols exist to provide encryption while addressing these issues.
                Encryption in some cases might need to be used with authentication and integrity
                protection schemes.</p>
            <p> Chatbots can also connect to channels like Facebook messenger, Slack, and so on. In
                this case, the ideal mitigation for end-to-end encryption is to only allow chatbots
                to connect to channels that support data encryption. Article 32 (a) of the General
                Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) specifically requires that companies take measures
                to pseudonymize and encrypt personal data. </p>
            <p>· User identity authentication and authorization</p>
            <p> User authentication is used to identify that a user is verified with valid and
                secure login credentials such as a username and password. The credentials are
                exchanged for a secure authentication token, this token is used throughout the
                user’s session.</p>
            <p> One of the security measures used in chatbots especially on the banking cases is
                authentication timeouts, when the generated token can only be used for a preset
                amount of time, after that, the system will be forced to make a new one.</p>
            <p> Two-factor authentication is another way to verify the identity of a user by asking
                them to verify their account through an email and text message, this authentication
                technique also helps with authorization by granting the right person access and
                keeping the information in the right hands.</p>
            <p>· Self-destructive messages</p>
            <p> When sensitive PII is transmitted, the message containing this information is
                destroyed after a set amount of time. This type of security measure is crucial when
                working with banking and other financial chatbots. Article 5 (e) of the General Data
                Protection Regulation (GDPR) states that personal data shall be kept for no longer
                than is necessary for the purposes for which it is being processed. Another GDPR
                compliance measure is to have an “intent level” of privacy, the user can exchange
                personal information but the data will not be revealed even from the backend, only
                the intents from the user are logged and kept for audit purposes.</p>
            <p>· Secure protocols</p>
            <p> The purpose of secure protocols is to transfer data from point A to point B without
                being intercepted, read by unauthorized individuals, altered or deleted. HTTPS is
                the web protocol ensuring the privacy and integrity of our data, this protocol
                transfers data over Hypertext transfer protocol (HTTP) through an encrypted
                connection by Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) or Transport Layer Security (TSL).</p>
            <p>Source: <xref
                    href="https://cai.tools.sap/blog/chatbots-security-measures-you-need-to-consider/"
                    format="html" scope="external"
                    >https://cai.tools.sap/blog/chatbots-security-measures-you-need-to-consider/</xref>
                (retrieved 18.02.2019)</p>
        </section>
        <section id="section_icd_y32_3hb">
            <title><ph id="_Toc5112608">Security and SAP CoPilot</ph></title>
            <p>SAP CoPilot stores personal information (such as first name, last name, email
                address, user ID, backend user ID) from the identity management for performance
                reasons. This interface can be used to offboard a user from SAP CoPilot.</p>
            <p>Offboarding a user includes:</p>
            <ul id="ul_pcd_y32_3hb">
                <li>· Deletion of private chats by the user (non-shared chats).</li>
                <li>· The deletion of shared chats where the user is the last person to be
                    offboarded.</li>
                <li>· Changing ownership of shared chats to the most active participant or to
                    another participant if none are active.</li>
                <li>· Displaying a system message regarding the new ownership of the shared
                    chats.</li>
                <li>· Deletion of personal information (such as user name, email address, user ID,
                    and backend user ID). The user name still exists in system messages for shared
                    chats. The user ID might still be stored in the security logs or configuration
                    change logs as indicated in the required retention period, for audit purposes.
                </li>
            </ul>
            <p> </p>
            <p>For more details on security and data protection at SAP, see:</p>
            <ul id="ul_qcd_y32_3hb">
                <li>· SAP <xref
                        href="https://wiki.wdf.sap.corp/wiki/pages/viewpage.action?pageId=1711447344"
                        format="html" scope="external">Data Protection Management System
                        (DPMS)</xref>: <xref
                        href="https://wiki.wdf.sap.corp/wiki/pages/viewpage.action?pageId=1711447344"
                        format="html" scope="external"
                        >https://wiki.wdf.sap.corp/wiki/pages/viewpage.action?pageId=1711447344</xref>
                </li>
                <li>· SAP Data Protection and Privacy Policy, Standards and Guidelines: <xref
                        href="https://wiki.wdf.sap.corp/wiki/pages/viewpage.action?pageId=1722358433"
                        format="html" scope="external"
                        >https://wiki.wdf.sap.corp/wiki/pages/viewpage.action?pageId=1722358433</xref>
                </li>
                <li>· SAP Data Protection and Privacy Network: <xref
                        href="https://jam4.sapjam.com/groups/EQ0719U3m54HB0rrQbVAxK/overview_page/AV69Be8xuMcIVOAfNQKlTe"
                        format="html" scope="external"
                        >https://jam4.sapjam.com/groups/EQ0719U3m54HB0rrQbVAxK/overview_page/AV69Be8xuMcIVOAfNQKlTe</xref>
                </li>
                <li>· SAP Personal Data and GDPR: <xref
                        href="https://wiki.wdf.sap.corp/wiki/display/DPPO/Personal+Data"
                        format="html" scope="external"
                        >https://wiki.wdf.sap.corp/wiki/display/DPPO/Personal+Data</xref> : </li>
                <li>SAP Global Security/SAP Security Strategy: <xref
                        href="https://portal.wdf.sap.corp/irj/go/km/docs/corporate_portal/Cross%20Services%20for%20SAP/Security/Security%20at%20SAP/2018_Global_Security_SAP_Strategy_V4.pdf"
                        format="html" scope="external"
                        >https://portal.wdf.sap.corp/irj/go/km/docs/corporate_portal/Cross%20Services%20for%20SAP/Security/Security%20at%20SAP/2018_Global_Security_SAP_Strategy_V4.pdf</xref></li>
                <li>SAP Product Standard Security Version 7.0: <xref
                        href="https://wiki.wdf.sap.corp/wiki/display/PSSEC/Security+Requirements+History?preview=/753271897/1980192109/SAP%20Product%20Standard%20Security%20Version%2070.pdf"
                        format="html" scope="external"
                        >https://wiki.wdf.sap.corp/wiki/display/PSSEC/Security+Requirements+History?preview=/753271897/1980192109/SAP%20Product%20Standard%20Security%20Version%2070.pdf</xref></li>
            </ul>
            <p> </p>
        </section>
    </shortdesc>
    <conbody/>
</concept>
