<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_tjj_jx5_cgb">
    <title>Component Overview</title>
    <shortdesc></shortdesc>
    <conbody>
        <p></p>
        <p>The main components used in SAP Vora are described briefly in the table below.</p>
        <table id="table_gtf_kx5_cgb">
            <tgroup cols="2">
                <colspec colnum="1" colname="col1"/>
                <colspec colnum="2" colname="col2"/>
                <thead>
                    <row>
                        <entry>Component</entry>
                        <entry>Description</entry>
                    </row>
                </thead>
                <tbody>
                    <row>
                        <entry>Vora Tools</entry>
                        <entry>An SQL editor, data browser, and view modeling environment.</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>Spark Thrift Server</entry>
                        <entry>The Hive/Thrift Query Server handles incoming JDBC requests for Spark
                            SQL queries. It is in charge of creating and handling the Spark session
                            required to run Spark SQL queries.</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>SAP Vora Spark Extension</entry>
                        <entry>The SAP Vora Spark extension implements the Spark data source API to
                            enable access to SAP HANA and SAP Vora tables and views through Spark
                            SQL. The SAP Vora Spark extension communicates with the transaction
                            coordinator or SAP HANA to execute queries on data stored in SAP HANA or
                            the various SAP Vora engines.</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>Transaction Coordinator</entry>
                        <entry>The transaction coordinator controls the execution of queries on the
                            graph, disk, document, and time series engines on behalf of the SAP Vora
                            Spark extension.</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>Catalog Server</entry>
                        <entry>The SAP Vora catalog provides a distributed metadata store. It stores
                            changes to the metadata in the DLog Server. The catalog keeps metadata
                            about the database objects (tables, time series, graphs, document
                            collections) stored in the various SAP Vora engines.</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>Landscape Manager</entry>
                        <entry>The landscape manager controls data partitioning and placement across
                            database engines.</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>Transaction Broker</entry>
                        <entry>The transaction broker provides a read-write lock mechanism for DDL
                            statements. This ensures that both the catalog and instances of the
                            query engine keep a consistent state at all times.</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>Discovery Service</entry>
                        <entry>The Discovery Service manages the service endpoints in the cluster.
                            These include the SAP Vora catalog, SAP Vora engines, DLog, and others.
                            It runs health checks on all registered services at pre-defined
                            intervals.</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>Cluster Manager/Kubernetes Dashboard</entry>
                        <entry>The Kubernetes dashboard is used to run all SAP Vora services on a
                            cluster of compute nodes. It allows you to deploy, maintain, and monitor
                            the SAP Vora services.</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>DLog (Distributed Log)</entry>
                        <entry>The distributed log manager provides metadata persistence for the SAP
                            Vora catalog.</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>SAP Vora Engines</entry>
                        <entry>The SAP Vora engines provide specialized storage and processing
                            capabilities for relational, graph, time series, and document data. The
                            engines communicate with each other during data partitioning and query
                            processing.</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>HDFS</entry>
                        <entry>The Hadoop Distributed File System is a virtualized file system with
                            replication and block-wise storage.</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>S3</entry>
                        <entry>The Amazon Simple Storage Service provides an object store, from
                            which the SAP Vora engines can read data.</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>ADL</entry>
                        <entry>The Azure Data Lake Storage (ADL) provides a cloud storage service
                            with an HDFS API.</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>WASB</entry>
                        <entry>The Windows Azure Storage Block (WASB) infrastructure is a HDFS-based
                            cloud store.</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>GCS</entry>
                        <entry>GCS is the Google Cloud Store.</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>Node Storage/Local FS</entry>
                        <entry>The local file system attached to the Kubernetes pods. It is used by
                            the relational disk engine and DLog to store (cached) data.</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>HANA SDA</entry>
                        <entry>SAP HANA Smart Data Access. An SAP HANA query federation technology
                            that can be configured to federate queries across SAP HANA and SAP
                            Vora.</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>Spark Clients (Livy, Thrift Server, Spark Shell)</entry>
                        <entry>Spark clients that run Spark applications using Spark submit. Spark
                            clients can be configured to use the SAP Vora Spark extension for
                            communication with SAP Vora.</entry>
                    </row>
                </tbody>
            </tgroup>
        </table>
    </conbody>
</concept>
