<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_rxr_rh2_3hb">
    <title></title>
    <shortdesc></shortdesc>
    <conbody>
        <section id="section_m54_132_3hb">
            <title><ph id="_Toc529782869">About Project Socrates</ph></title>
            <p>Users want to communicate with apps in a human-like way and receive personalized
                assistance. This interaction paradigm is called “conversational UI”. It is a key
                part of SAP's product strategy and a key UA strategy topic.</p>
            <p>Chatbots help users perform their tasks more quickly and in a natural way. They
                respond to user questions or commands. The user experience is about engaging in a
                fluid, human-like dialog with the user (voice recognition and/or text).</p>
            <p>The SAP Help Portal is a goldmine for chatbots, with structured content helping SAP
                make its chatbots smarter and more personalized.</p>
            <p>Colleagues in UA are language and communication specialists who understand the
                context of users, their intents and expectations, and how they use language. With
                the right infrastructure, technology, and enablement, they can ensure that SAP
                chatbots converse naturally and easily with users and create a frictionless
                conversational experience.</p>
            <p>Project Socrates started in April 2018, with wave 1 running until January 2019 and
                wave 2 running till end 2019. The purpose of Project Socrates is to enable the SAP
                UA and translation organizations to become the go-to experts for conversational
                design of SAP chatbots in the intelligent enterprise.</p>
        </section>
        <section id="section_o54_132_3hb">
            <title><ph id="_Toc529782870">Mission Statement</ph></title>
            <p>The Project Socrates team ensures UA and Translation have the right infrastructure,
                technology, content, guidelines, and training to support SAP’s vision of an
                intelligent enterprise. </p>
        </section>
        <section id="section_s54_132_3hb">
            <title><ph id="_Toc529782871">Project Setup</ph></title>
            <p>The project is staffed with UA, Translation, Development, and UX colleagues from
                across SAP products and locations. The project is divided into separate work
                packages, a cross-work package group for multilingual aspects, and a group of
                consulting advisers from various areas within SAP. For more details on Project
                Socrates, see: Get Project News on Chatbots@UA Jam Group <xref
                    href="https://jam4.sapjam.com/groups/HVprp1Pkb1GPUw7E4c4TXi/overview_page/iCfuEYZ1hYZdTG7SgieCgT"
                    format="html" scope="external"
                    >https://jam4.sapjam.com/groups/HVprp1Pkb1GPUw7E4c4TXi/overview_page/iCfuEYZ1hYZdTG7SgieCgT</xref>.</p>
        </section>
    </conbody>
</concept>
